# 🏰 Amman - The Capital of Jordan

With a population of 4 million people, which makes it the largest city in Jordan
which has a population of 10 million people in total. Amman considered one of
the oldest cities in the middle east,

When you land in Queen Alia airport, and check yourself in one of the many
global hotels around Amman, you should first head to “Albalad” area which means
“Downtown”, despite the growing urban area that has brought many changes, much
remains of its old character, it is considered one of the oldest alive areas in
history of Amman, it was originally inhabited around 6500 B.C. where a mix of
old buildings collide with modern vibes.

You should definitely start your day with breakfast in Hashem restaurant in
Albalad where you get to taste one of the best Falafel in the country,
afterwards, with a full tummy, you burn these calories when you go tour the old
shopping centers of Albalad, countless of goods and memorabilias can be found
and once you’re done shopping, you choose one of the many restaurants that serve
local cuisines in Albalad, followed by sheesha and kunafa from the oldest kunafa
places in Jordan “Habiba”.

You also get to visit The Amman Citadel, a historic site in the center of
downtown, one of the most visited sites by tourists.

And by the way, Amman is one of the oldest inhabited cities in the world, having
evidence of settlement from 7250 B.C.! now it’s considered one of the most
modernized cities in the Arab world.

The night is coming, and you sure want to experience the nightlife in Jordan,
and within a walking distance you head to rainbow street which is within what we
call “The 1st circle” area.

Rainbow street is a very old area where it’s filled with cafes, bars and
restaurants. You might want to have a quite time in La Calle bar, or you want to
party in an interesting way where you should definitely head to Scrabs bar.

Amman’s increasing nightlife scene is shaped by Jordan’s young population, it’s
very easy to find nightclubs, music bars, and shisha lounges, which are changing
the city’s old image as the conservative capital. Amman has become one of the
most liberal and westernized cities of the Arab world.

Also close to Rainbow street area, a place we call “Lwaibdeh” which is
considered number one in the places where expats prefer to live in, for its
western and the same time, eastern vibes that come together to make a very
attractive scene in Jordan, and is considered the art hub in Amman.

From the 1st circle, to the 8th circle, all modern urban scenes known can be
found along the way, and ends in airport road where it’s less than an hour away
from the dead sea.

Generally, the most important areas in Amman are named after the hills, in
Arabic it’s called “Jabal”, Amman was initially built on 7 hills but now spans
over 19 hills “Jabal”.

Jordan has been receiving refugees for the last century and has become the home
of many people from Palestine, Syria, Iraq, Yemen… etc. which one of the causes
that Amman has become one of the largest capitals in the middle east, and
because of its geographical location, people often think that Jordan is not a
stable and safe country, but once you set foot in Amman, you will notice a very
different idea of what you would think of this middle eastern country.

## About the Author

Mujahid Al-Majali, a 29-year-old former air force soldier and an economic
development and business specialist, also does translation and copywriting.
Loves long drives, chill music and old school movies. A nicotine addict and a
huge fan of Jack Daniel’s whiskey. Owned multiple businesses in Amman and
southern of Jordan PRE-COVID and now focusing on translation and copywriting
part of my experience through Upwork.

## References

- <https://www.lonelyplanet.com/jordan/amman>
- <http://www.kinghussein.gov.jo/tourism1.html>
- <https://www.aviontourism.com/en/destinations/amman-17584>
