# ðŸŽµ Goa

"Strange style, many also dispute its self-existence, saying that it is a
sub-genre of trance. It once undoubtedly started as a sub-genre, but by the end
of the 1990s, it had moved so far away from its "mother" that, despite the
musical similarities, we could speak of a truly independent style. There are
also obvious Indian influences in appearance - even the name of genre refers to
the former Portuguese colony.

The initial authentic, "small hotel" spirit slowly turned into a huge business.
Many see charlatanism, one of the manifestations of the Western man's inherited
attraction to the dream mystery. They are partially right, as they forget that
the trend known as Goa still creates real communities. And meanwhile, the music
was pushed backwards, transformed, merged into the big whole: into visuals, into
the kaleidoscopic carnival of costumes and scenery. On the other hand, the
escape from the IT-electronic jungle of major European cities, or Israel, to the
mere mystery of a barren full moon is sometimes anachronistic. Music quality -
in inverse proportion to the growth of popularity indicators - is becoming more
and more shallowâ€¦"

"In the 80s the House explosion reached India's western shores, specifically
Acid House with its alien-sounding trippy synthlines that complimented
psychedelic drugs like peanut butter and chocolate (and it's right there in the
name). While a number of legendary Goa DJs will say they started the scene, the
one who gave it that electronic edge was probably Goa Gil."

![goa](_static/images/goa/goa.jpeg)

"What's more about historicity is that the most outstanding, really pioneering
representative of the style was the Juno Reactor. Today, however, Goa is also
adapting to the turn of the millennium: the numbers are becoming more and more
eclectic, with more and more broken beats."

Names to keep in mind for genre lovers:

Astral Projection, Doof, Darshan, Electric Universe, Etnica, Green Nuns, Lunar
Asylium, Slinky Wizard, Transwave, Xenomorph, and many more.

You can find more details about its formation and development on Ishkur's Guide
to Electronic Music, and you can listen to goa music right away.

<https://music.ishkur.com/?query=GoaTrance>#

The Every Noise at Once platform provides an opportunity for people to get to
know better the names of the creators who have ever been in the genre and thus
the peculiarities of it.

Sources :

- MENNYEK KAPUI - Az elektroniks zene Ã©vtizede (The decade of electronic music)
- Wikipedia
- Ishkur's Guide to Electronic Music
- Every Noise at Once

## About the Author

"Guido F. Matis (a.k.a. widosub), a seasoned producer-composer authority with an
unquenchable compassion towards the musical expression, and many years of
experience in the fields of event organizing, movie post-production, and
recording with professional musicians. His devotion to movie sounds shows in his
art - widosub's music is filled with landscapes of emotions, dramatic twists and
melancholic moods. He's one of the hosts of Tilos RÃ¡diÃ³'s MustBeat show, in
which he's is focusing on drum'n'bass and chillout music. He's also one half of
the duo Empty Universe."
