# ü•Å House

"The house was born in Chicago, at least that's the common (correct) view.
played very similar to what drove the sons of Chicago to world fame. In their
parties - at first - the lucky ones could hear practically everything: disco,
soul, gospel, rock, reggae, European electro-pop, or even abstract krautrock
(Manuel G√∂tsching) compositions."

![House music pioneers Alan King, Robert Williams and Derrick Carter](_static/images/house/house.jpeg)

"House is a genre of electronic dance music characterized by a repetitive
four-on-the-floor beat and a typical tempo of 120 to 130 beats per minute. It
was created by DJs and music producers from Chicago's underground club culture
in the 1980s, as DJs from the subculture began altering disco songs to give them
a more mechanical beat and deeper basslines.

The genre was pioneered by DJs and producers mainly from Chicago and New York
such as Frankie Knuckles, Larry Levan, Ron Hardy, Jesse Saunders, Chip E., Steve
"Silk" Hurley, Mr. Lee, Farley "Jackmaster" Funk, Marshall Jefferson, Phuture
and others. From its beginnings in the Chicago club and local radio scene, the
genre expanded internationally to London, then to other American cities such as
New York City and Detroit before becoming a worldwide phenomenon."

"In its most typical form, the genre is characterized by repetitive 4/4 rhythms
including bass drums, off-beat hi-hats, snare drums, claps, and/or snaps at a
tempo between 120 and 130 beats per minute (bpm), synthesizer riffs, deep
basslines, and often, but not necessarily, sung, spoken or sampled vocals. In
house, the bass drum is usually sounded on beats one, two, three, and four, and
the snare drum, claps, or other higher-pitched percussion on beats two and four.
The drum beats in house music are almost always provided by an electronic drum
machine, often a Roland TR-808, TR-909, or a TR-707. Claps, shakers, snare drum,
or hi-hat sounds are used to add syncopation. One of the signature rhythm riffs,
especially in early (Chicago) house, is built on the clave pattern. Congas and
bongos may be added for an African sound, or metallic percussion for a Latin
feel."

"At least three styles of dancing are associated with house music: Jacking,
Footwork, and Lofting. These styles include a variety of techniques and
sub-styles, including skating, stomping, Vosho, Pouting Cat and shuffle steps
(also see Melbourne Shuffle). House music dancing styles can include movements
from many other forms of dance, such as waacking, voguing, African, Latin,
Brazilian (including Capoeira), jazz dance, Lindy Hop, tap dance, and even
modern dance. House dancing is concerned with the sensuality of the body and
setting oneself free in ecstasy ‚Äî without the worry of outside barriers."

You can find more details about its formation and development on Ishkur's Guide
to Electronic Music, and you can listen to house music right away.
<https://music.ishkur.com/?query=WorldHouse>

The Every Noise at Once platform provides an opportunity for people to get to
know better the names of the creators who have ever been in the genre and thus
the peculiarities of it.

Sources :

- MENNYEK KAPUI - Az elektroniks zene √©vtizede (The decade of electronic music)
- Wikipedia
- Ishkur's Guide to Electronic Music
- Every Noise at Once

## About the Author

"Guido F. Matis (a.k.a. widosub), a seasoned producer-composer authority with an
unquenchable compassion towards the musical expression, and many years of
experience in the fields of event organizing, movie post-production, and
recording with professional musicians. His devotion to movie sounds shows in his
art - widosub's music is filled with landscapes of emotions, dramatic twists and
melancholic moods. He's one of the hosts of Tilos R√°di√≥'s MustBeat show, in
which he's is focusing on drum'n'bass and chillout music. He's also one half of
the duo Empty Universe."
